Okay. They said, well, we know your
circumstances, and we've had people from our
company here before that have been in the same can
groups with military, and we know that you only get
a small per diem, which can't possibly take care of
all your living expenses, and it will really be a
financial burden to you unless you're a wealthy
man independently for you and your family for you
to be here. And he said, we want to tell you
something. We don't want you to ever try to pick up a
check when we go out to eat. And we want to pay your
phone bill. It'll be divided up between all of us
and put on our expense accounts, which are
unlimited. And any other expenses you have, we
want to pay for. And I said, for Christ's sake, what
do you think I am? I said, hell, I'm not going to
accept charity from you guys. Sure, it might be a
little bit of a financial burden to me, but I'm just
not going to do it. And I said, I couldn't let you pay
my phone bill and my laundry bill. You want to pay my
laundry bill, too, see? Send out your clothes,
shirts, and everything. So they said, well, why
don't you just let us do what we can then, and you
keep your self-respect, if you call it that. But we
really said it's done. It's been done for years.
And the president of my company, this was Ed
Donnelly saying it, he said the president of my
company, when he was up here six years ago, he said
they did it. He told me just before I left, he said,
now, if there are any military in your can groups,
put their expenses on your tab. And so I couldn't
wait to get to the other military guys. They said,
yeah, we've had a meeting just like it. And most of
them took the same attitude I did. But they did pay a
lot of my expenses. And a couple of times, I just
damn near fought them over picking up checks. So it
did cost me, oh, I guess maybe $1,500, $1,600. But
nevertheless, they helped quite a bit. Oh, yeah.
Now, why do you think they do that? I think they do it
because it's a genuine feeling of,
I don't know whether it's appreciation or a
general feeling of wanting to be of service and
help somebody from the military or from
government that doesn't have the the financial
backing to really enjoy the full fruits of the
endeavor. And I don't think they want to try to gain
any brownie points for their company with anybody
because I've never had any dealings with any of
them and didn't anticipate ever having any
official dealings with any of them. But the last,
the crowning achievement of things, the last week
at the AMP is called Wives Week. And they
traditionally have the wives come up And
everybody moves out of the can group to a downtown
hotel. They all book rooms, all contiguous to one
another. And all the wives are there. The wives
make some of the classes. They have some special
classes for wives, four or five hours of classes
during the week. There are three or four big
parties of entertainment, and then a final big
graduation banquet and party. It's a very
expensive week, the wives' week. Air
transportation up there, staying at the Ritz, our
kin group stayed at the Ritz. So we were living in
Atlanta at the Third Army, and my wife came up there
and left the kids. She flew up. So we were there at
the Ritz. We took part in everything all during the
week and just had a heck of a good time. So we were
going to check out early Sunday morning to catch an
early flight back to Atlanta. And I went down about
7 o'clock to get my tab and pay my bill. We figured we
owed $200, $250. So I went to the desk and they said,
well, Colonel, we haven't got a bill for you. I
said, what the hell do you mean? And they said,
well, we just have it. I said, you don't have a bill.
And I said, you've got to be kidding me. And they
said, no, I said, well, who paid for it? I said, God
damn it, somebody must have paid for it. My wife and
I have been here for six days. And they said, well,
you just haven't got a bill. And so finally, the
assistant manager says, look, why don't you just
be a good guy and just forget about it and walk off?
And don't ask me any more questions. He says,
believe me, you haven't got a bill. So I don't know
who paid for it, or whether they divided it up on
their bills or not. And I later saw one of the other
military, and he said the same thing happened to
him. No kidding. No kidding, yeah. Everybody from
government, when they went to pay their bill for
Wives Week, the hotel just said, well, you haven't
got a bill. And they couldn't even give them a copy
of the bill. They just said, you have no bill. Isn't
that something? That's fantastic. And I think
it's still being done today. And they're just
about the same number of guys going, because I get
all the news from the Harvard Business School and
the AMP programs have about the same, no more, no
less, same people from the military and from the
Army. And when you so-called graduate, what do
they give you, a diploma that you were in this
course? Yeah, you get a diploma, a nice little
diploma. You become a member of the Harvard
alumni. I think that's how they build up their
massive alumni that continually plague you for
money and so forth. But it's a real great
experience. It's a certificate then that you pass
this course. How rigorous was the course? Pretty
doggone rigorous. We worked every night until 10
or 11 o'clock on all these case studies.
Everything was on case studies. So usually you
worked with your TAN group. Work with your can
group, yeah. And sometime on maybe a special
project, you'd work with guys from other can
groups that were in your section or in the group
that the professor had assigned. But it was, and I,
many times I used a lot of things I got,
particularly in the labor relations. I had this
very eminent little German guy that was a
professor.
And then this guy that talked about
constitutional law and antitrust legislation,
he was just absolutely superb. So you thought the
professors at Harvard were quite good. Oh, yeah.
And it was many of the things that I used
extensively. I know in my command at the Defense
Industrial Supply Center that just prior to my
last command, in some very tedious steel
negotiations that the government was having with
big steel. While some of the things that I learned
and gained and gleaned at that, uh, uh, advanced
management program really were of great
assistance to me. And I, I think it's a very
worthwhile thing. It certainly, uh, but for five
months we were, you know, separated from our, from
the military completely and, uh, It's looked upon
very, very strongly by the military.
People kind of bow down to you when you get an
appointment to go to the Harvard Business School,
to the advanced management program.
And I want to talk about getting to France. OK.
My tour of duty, I was in charge of the
operations division in the G4 section of U.S.
UConn, United States European Command, which was
the supreme headquarters in Europe at Camp du
Loge, just outside of Paris, right in the suburbs
of Paris. And the Supreme Commander at that time
was General Charles Palmer, Charles D. Palmer.
And the work there was logistics, joint logistics
at this high level involving a lot of contact with
NATO allies and a lot of contact and activity in
connection with NATO facilities, particularly
the NATO pipeline system throughout Europe. And
it's a network of pipelines in the low countries
and a network of pipelines from the coast of
France, across France, into West Germany, all the
way to the Rhine River, so that in the event of a war,
we can unload tankers on the French coast or even in
the low countries and pump jet fuel or diesel fuel
or motor fuel through this pipeline network right
on as far forward as the Rhine River. And this is all
underground pipeline built pipeline system in
the U.S. And a beautiful setup. We even built
pipelines in Turkey. We built NATO pipelines in
Turkey, throughout Turkey, and built a few
pipelines in North Africa. short pipelines to
serve the Pueblos Airport in Libya which is now
turned back of course to the Libyans and I'm sure
Qaddafi is using all those facilities now. It
involved a lot of travel to the Middle East and back
and forth to the Middle East, inspection type
travel and visiting all types of facilities like
air bases and Eastern Turkey, and checking on the
support of the U.S. to our NATO allies through the
aid programs and what have you. Very, very
interesting job. And it was there in Paris that I
got word that I was nominated to be a general
officer. Yeah, tell me about that. How did that
come about, and what were your feelings at the
time? Well, of course, we had known that a
selection board was convening.
Everybody does that's in the zone knows that a
selection board is convening to make nominees. So
I hadn't really given a whole lot of thought about
it, or certainly hadn't worried about it. And one
morning, I I was late to work. I think it was
probably the only time during the three years I was
assigned there in headquarters that I didn't get
into the office till about 8.30, 8.45. Because I
had just bought a French car, a little Simca, a
little four-door Simca, and I had to take it by a
French garage because the windshield wipers
weren't working good or something. Anyway, I took
it by the garage and They gave me a ride to the gates
of Camp Delos, and I walked from the main gate into
my office. So when I got into my office, my office,
there were four or five officers in there, my
secretary was in there, and a couple of civilians,
and I said, what the hell's going on? And they said,
well, why don't you read the message on your desk?
So there was a cable on my desk from the Edgerton
General notifying me that I had been nominated by
the president. to be a general officer. And about
that time my secretary came back and he always
said, General Palmer wants to see you. He called.
As a matter of fact, she said he called 10 minutes
ago and we had to tell him that you were out for a
moment. So I said, well, I guess I better go in to see
the old man. So I went down right away and was
ushered right in. And he congratulated me and told
me to sit down. And he talked a little bit, and then I
told him, and tried to be as humble as I could, that
there's certainly a lot of more people more worthy
and deserving than me that should have been
selected. While I'm very honored, I know that
there's a hell of a lot of people that deserve it
more than I did. He looked at me and he said, look, he
said, it's nice of you to say that. But just
remember this. God damn it, they had the same
chance you had. And I've always remembered that.
And he looked me right in the eye, and he said it very
sincerely. And I really appreciated it. He was a
very, very great guy, a nice guy. Not a household
word. He had a brother that also was a four-star
general. the two Palmer brothers, Charlie Palmer
and his brother, a little short fella. I forget
what his first name was. But both of them were
really outstanding officers. Both of them had
big, had high combat commands during the war,
division commanders or corps commanders. And
very capable administrators, both of them. And he
was very, he was very, very really really meant a
lot to me and for him to say all the things that he did
say and immediately after that why he must have
directed that they start to uh you know give me all
the privileges and everything of the flag even
though it was oh hell it was about seven months six
months before i got my star because of the
vacancies they have to wait until somebody
retired and so forth and then there was some hitch
came up some congressman some senator on the armed
service committee wanted to charge some general
officer spots in the national guard division to
the regular general officer roster and that
delayed it another month or two because they they
tagged the three or four spaces in the in the
national guard division to the general to the
general officer roster of the regular army well
anyway uh us ucom
I already had a staff card that I, that was my own,
that was assigned to me from my job, but about two
weeks later I got a new one, a little bit, you know, a
brand new one, without even asking for it, and the
other one I had was perfectly good. And it was just a
lot of little things like that. It was so obvious.
But it was, it was very good, and I stayed there for
about, 90 days. And then I was transferred back to
the States to help put together the Defense Supply
Agency, which was this new joint agency that
Secretary McNamara had decreed that he wanted
done. Okay, but before we get to that, let's Let's
talk about France leaving or kicking the United
States out of their country early in the 1960s.
Were you there at that time? No, I was not there at
that time, but I made a trip over there. Okay. A
couple of trips over there, and we had to, I first
went into Germany, and we had to get into civilian
clothes before we went on into France. No kidding.
No kidding. They told me when I got to France. What
were your feelings about that? Well, I just
thought it was awful that I couldn't, as an
American officer, and I was already a general, and
that I couldn't, as an American general, get off of
the airplane at Orly Field, a military airplane at
Orly Field, and go into Paris in my uniform. That I
had to wear civilian clothes. And it's the honest
to God's truth. Well, what were most of the
feelings of the American officers? Well, they
were the same. They were the same. And it was awful.
The French people, per se, of course, nobody knew
who you were. You're walking down the street in
civilian clothes. That's fine. But the people you
had contact with, they didn't have any big change
of heart to you outwardly or to your face. They
didn't say you were a no-good and so forth. But...
You really, it was kind of a bitter pill, really.
And the French have not done a very good job on this,
to jump ahead a few years, this survey I made for the
Department of Defense of the pipeline. See, when
the French kicked us out, instead of us having U.S.
personnel along the pipeline through France, the
French now run it with a contractor civilian
contractor. There's no U.S. military on the
pipeline at all. And when I saw it about four years
ago, it was pitiful. I'd say, I've got it in my
report, but about 30% of the pumping units are
inoperable. They've been robbed of spare parts to
keep some of the other ones going. They're just
like what we call hangar queens, airplanes that
have been robbed of spare parts to keep other
airplanes flying. You've got an airplane in a
hangar that won't fly because some wings have been
taken off or ailerons have been taken off. Why
don't they order parts from American companies? I
don't know. But rather than spend the money, they
just cannibalize spare engines and spare pumps
and compressors in the pump stations. Two or three
pump stations that I visited along the line were
absolutely inoperable. And the product that goes
through the line is only a very small amount that
they keep pumping through the line. This is some of
our product that is unloaded and pumped all
through the line into Germany just to make the line
operational. It loses capacity and loses fluid
velocity and everything because this pump
station is inoperable to keep it moving. limps
along at a very slow pace, so the throughput in the
line is greatly reduced. And the maintenance of
the thing is just awful. The stations, the weeds
are growing up around them, the paint is peeling
off the wall. It just makes you sick. Because
American money, taxpayer money, built that
goddamn system. I think when the pipeline system
across France cost about 90 million dollars, and
The French are not taking care of it. I don't know
what they did. I rendered my report to DOD and they
haven't asked me to go back again. I imagine they
will one of these days ask me to go back again. I was
spent about two weeks looking at it. Went to
Donges, that's D-O-N-G-E-S on the channel,
Channel Coast where the tankers unload and that
unloading facility was in very bad shape too. But a
French hate a rich uncle. That's their
philosophy. And I've had French people tell me
that because a good friend of mine, an officer,
married a French gal. And we know him very well.
He's dead now. But the French hate a rich uncle. And
we've seen it several times. And it's
particularly evident in Paris, a Parisian
expresses all of the bad things about the French
psychology. Now, the people out in the provinces
are pretty good guys. They're just good old
country people. But the haughty Parisians are
despicable, really. They really are despicable.
And the wife and I were over there last November.
Crime in Paris today is pitiful. Oh, it's awful.
Subways. The metro system, the beautiful subway
they've got. When you ride the Metro, by God, be
sure you've got your billfold velcroed in your
pocket or zippered in your pocket because of
pickpockets. We were targeted pickpockets on the
Metro. Three guys, three Algerian-looking
students, dashed in on us and bumped into us and
then went right out the door before the door closed
at the Metro stop, at the Concord Metro stop, which
is a very busy one. Did they get your wallet? No. I
had some jackets I wear, particularly overseas,
with zippers in the inside coat pocket. Put the
wallet in there and close the zipper. And there's
all sorts of things now. There's a little wallet
thing you can put on your leg. It's an elastic
thing. Slip it on over your sock. You can put your
wallet right down in it. There's all sorts of
things. But the best thing, and you can put a flap on
your pocket on your inside coat pocket with
Velcro. And built that up. But I've got two or three
jackets with zippers in the inside pockets. And
that's perfect. Now let's talk about McNamara and
you helping set up the Defense Supply Agency. What
was the rationale for that? Why did McNamara want
that? He wanted a joint facility, a joint
activity, a joint agency take care of the
requirements of all the services, staffed by
people from all the services, to avoid and save
duplication of effort and duplication of
activity and services. Now what I'm going to say,
you won't hear from a lot of military guys of any
rank, but I think Bob McNamara is the only
Secretary of Defense we ever had. He was the only
one with the vision and the courage and the guts to
do some of these things, to do away with this
absolutely foolish, wasteful, and scandalous
self-service interest that some of my peers and
colleagues in the military services hold out for
their respective services. We have gone too far.
Life is too complex. Weapon systems are too
expensive for petty service jealousies and
rights to prevail. We've got to have one central
defense effort and activity staffed and manned by
people of the various disciplines, Army, Navy,
Air Force, Marines, and to do away with the damn
duplication of effort. And a lot has happened
since the start of this, but a hell of a lot more
remains to be done. You may have been reading
recently about some of the battles in the Joint
Chiefs of Staff where they want to make some
changes. And they've just got to do it because
there are still some people that just hold out, you
know, they say, well, hell, this is an Army role,
this is an Army responsibility, and they ought to
do it. We ought to do it. We the Army ought to do it. A
lot of guys in the Air Force say the same thing. A lot
of guys in the Navy. I think the guys in the Navy and
the Army are the worst so far as being jealous of
their prerogatives and their roles and their
missions. I believe the Air Force are more
joint-minded. At least I found that from my
experience. McNamara wanted to do this because,
for what I've said, he did it. And I had the
opportunity to help create it from the ground
floor of this defense supply agency. And he picked
AT McNamara, General McNamara, to head the thing
up. And there was a nuclear service of about 12
officers. that arrived in Washington. We went to
Temporary Building A down on Buzzard Point right
adjacent to the Fort McNair there, a temporary
building built in World War II. And we were in there
for about four months and putting the thing
together organizationally and gathering people
in from the services. Then we moved over to Cameron
Station over in Virginia and they rehabilitated
offices for us. We had all kinds of problems
getting people from the services to help staff the
organization. The Army and a lot of the staff, you
know, they would send us not the best guys, but some
of their mediocre guys. It's awful. Why would they
do that? Because they were against it. They were
against it. They were against it. So the
hierarchy, the Army Chief of Staff was against it.
And the people, we the people that served in the
joint agencies suffered in our respective
service because of our service in the joint staffs
in the joint agencies. But I'm proud and happy to
have been a part of the beginning of joint defense
efforts in this country because The quicker we get
to it in a clean, pure basis, the cheaper, the more
bang we're going to get for the buck. And it's just
pitiful, really. And was the function of the
Defense Supply Agency to coordinate all of the
supplies that are needed for all services? Not
only coordinate, but actually take control. The
inventory control, the procurement of them, the
management of them, and then issue them out to the
services based on what they've asked for. Yeah,
absolutely. All the common supplies. And then
there was always a fight of whether the service
would turn it over to the DSA because, oh, they
said, no, we've got to manage this because this is
peculiar to our missions. And even though the Navy
used the same thing, and the Air Force used the same
thing, they said, no, we've got to manage this.
Well, it was a slow, painful process. But
gradually and gradually, we took away all of the
things that were specifically jointly used
things. But you'd be surprised. They would argue
about things like mundane things, like
underwear. Oh, this particular type of
underwear, this is peculiar to the Navy. Even
certain foodstuffs and everything, certain
rations, operational rations. How did you ever
get over all that nonsense? Well, McNamara
issued, you know, certain, and the Secretary, he,
the Secretary of Defense, and he had the backing of
the White House, and...
It was painful, but it came about. It came about,
and it came about very quickly. And, of course,
they're still fighting today about a lot of
things. They're fighting today about a lot of
things. A lot of even weapon systems and certain
vehicles. They're fighting. All the things
they're fighting about today are the hard ones.
The easy ones and the not-so-hard ones that we've
already... put in joint operation. Like all the
uniforms? All the uniforms, all the ammunition,
and things like that. There's, line item wise,
Probably close to six, seven, 800,000 different
line items. No kidding. That are in joint supply
now, yeah. Where's the warehouse for this? I
suppose there's a number of warehouses. There
must be enormous. Number of depots. The largest
ones are in Ogden, Utah, New Cumberland,
Pennsylvania.
Anniston, Alabama. Did you have to take these over
from them? Yeah, we took these over. You took these
over from the individual services? Sure did. They
must have complained. DSA depots, yeah. All of
this came about. It's a massive thing. Did you keep
the original commanders in charge of those? In
most cases we did, yes. Most cases. But then the
next commander went to a comparable officer from
another service. So an Air Force commander would
go in and take over a Navy depot. From a Navy depot,
and then the next commander might be a guy from the
Army, and his deputy might be a guy from the Navy or a
guy from the Air Force. Just like when I commanded
the Defense Industrial Supply Center in
northeast Philadelphia, it had been a Navy
command. It was responsible and is responsible
now for all of the... the fasteners, the bearings,
the sheet steel, the sheet aluminum, the plate
steel, the gaskets, and the bearings, I mentioned
that, and the aircraft fasteners, and bolts and
nuts. It's responsible for about 400,000 line
items. And we had them stored in these DSA depots at
about five locations around the country. and
everything was, all the requisitions are on a
computer basis and distribution and shipping
orders were on a computer basis. And this was a real
interesting operation, a real can of worms with
all those different things. We had in Northeast
Philly at this old Naval Supply Depot
headquarters, I had about 150 officers of all the
services. about 2,000 civilians and then
scattered around in the procurement offices and
about that many again. And
this was after I left the headquarters and they
sent me out to run one of these joint activities.
Then I went from there down to southeast
Philadelphia just for one end of Philadelphia the
other to take over the personnel support center
which is the largest one of the joint supply
centers because of its it's the largest one from a
monetary standpoint because of other than from
weapon systems because of food clothing medical
organizational equipment and the like now you
being in the groundwork here for the design supply
You must have irritated some of your superiors.
Oh, yes. No question about it. And that might be
another reason why you didn't get that second
star. Well, it might have been, but I think
everybody
that had any interest in it is all satisfied it's
because of the Eisenhower-George Gordon Moore
incident and some of the residual feedback and
results from that. It could have been, could have
been. But did you irritate a lot of your superiors?
Yes, I'm sure I did. I'm sure I did. There's no
question about it. No question about it. Even some
of the people, well, in my own service army,
because, you know, they would refer to you as a DSA
type or a joint staff type. And everybody suffered
a little bit. from it, from the services. But
that's gradually disappearing and now in my last
command I have, the guy that took over from me was a
Navy Admiral. And then the guy that took over from
him was an Air Force Major General. And the guy
that's there now is an Army Major General. And on
your The only Brigadier to have that job. Yes, I'm
the only one that's had that job since 1967. Yeah,
since I left there. I think you're right. I think
the record will show that. This is, of course, one
of McNamara's desires to centralize the whole
system and streamline the whole system.
Streamline and centralize. And it's sort of like
setting up the Defense Intelligence Agency at the
same time. I had a good friend that was mixed up in
that, and oh my God, the arguments they had about
that. You wouldn't believe it. Do you know General
Maples? No. No? I sure didn't know him. He was in on
that, and he was also a... Have you had some guys say
the same thing about this joint business? It's
pitiful. It really is pitiful. I think that the
presidents have been derelict in their duty as
commander-in-chief. all of them that have
happened since McNamara's time, for not sounding
out and saying more publicly and in service debate
and in service direction. I think the people that
have occupied the Oval Office and the White House
could have done a hell of a lot to help speed this
thing along. Of course, it's come along a long,
long way. But there's still a long way to go and
there's billions of dollars in the offing because
the duplication of effort and the duplication of
roles and missions, it's just scandalous,
really. Tell me about McNamara. I liked the guy. I
really liked the guy. What did you like about him?
You were one of the very first generals that I've
interviewed who liked him. Most of them say that he
was very bright, but he was obnoxious and that he
had no respect for the military. Well, that's not
true. He did have respect for the military.
McNamara is a very, he's maybe a little bit cocky.
Most sharp, real sharp guys are when they achieve a
lot of power. Napoleon was. Maybe McNamara is kind
of like Napoleon in that respect, but McNamara has
a lot of humility. He has a lot of feeling and I got to
know the guy. I never saw him a whole lot, but he
remembered who I was and he remembered certain
things about things we had done. He mentioned a
couple of things one time about that was a great job
you did on all those directed orders and so forth.
Well, that was six months after that happened. And
he had courage, he had guts, and he was extremely
bright. He was really bright. He was, of course,
one of the original whiz kids, and you can spell it
all with caps as far as he's concerned. Extremely
bright. And I know that nearly everybody Almost
everybody doesn't like him. But a lot of people do
like him, and I just happen to be one that does. Were
you in a lot of meetings or some meetings with him?
Some, yes. How did he handle them? Very
efficiently, very efficiently. Right to the
point, and he respected people's opinions. He was
not, you know, he didn't try to force his... Matter
of fact, he kind of... He was a pretty good
proponent of the decision by committee type, you
know? Two or three people to handle a task problem
and come up with a committee opinion or a joint
opinion on it. What did you think of the so-called
whiz kids? Did you have any dealings with those?
No, I didn't really. I never was thrown in any
contact with that group. McNamara I guess was the
only one. But I think he did a great service to the
United States, McNamara did. And Kennedy was very
astute to bring a guy like McNamara in. Of course
Kennedy and McNamara were very, very close. Did
you ever have any debates with some of your
colleagues in the Army about this since you took
such an opposite view of most of them that I've
talked to? Lots of them. Lots of them. What they
say? Well, they say about what you've heard that,
you know, he's obnoxious and autocratic and so
forth. Nobody ever, ever discounted his ability.
Nobody ever discounted his ability. And I say that
the charter for the Secretary of Defense is very
strong. He can do just damn near anything if he has
guts to do it. And that's why I say McNamara is the
only Secretary of Defense we ever had. From what
I've read, and I don't have any inside
information, but what I've read, I think Caspar
Weinberger is fairly close to performing much
like McNamara did. But the Secretary of Defense,
with his charter, has got a hell of a lot of
authority and a hell of a lot of power. And McNamara
was the only guy that used it, and I think he used it
wisely. And if he'd been there longer, we'd be
further along. I think we'd have a leaner,
stronger defense posture.
Why don't we take a little walk through the plant?
Great, let's do that. I was at a cocktail party, and
he was telling a story about a serviceman that had
had an accident, and the family had had a lot of
hardship and everything, and the guy had tears in
his eyes. McNamara. McNamara. Tell me that. A
warrant officer. He had spoken to the warrant
officer's wife. And the guy had a lot of
compassion. I just can't see them telling
somebody that they don't know anything. Well,
let's continue about your next one, which was
command of Defense Industrial Supply Center.
Yeah. And was this one of McNamara's babies, too?
This is one of McNamara's babies. He established
about five of these joint supply of service
commands where they managed inventory. You got it
on? Yes, I did. Where they managed inventory for
common items for all the services and procured for
all the services. They were jointly staffed and so
forth. And the chain of command was directly to the
Secretary of Defense. And we had no operational
authority from our respective services. It was
all to the Office of the Secretary of Defense. And
of course, this sometimes worked to a
disadvantage to the individual service officer
and his relationship with his other service. But
those difficulties were really minimal, and I
think they mainly revolved around personnel
administration matters primarily. Could you
give me an example of the type of things that you
would order at the industrial supply? Yeah, steel
for the Navy shipyards and aluminum plate for the
Air Force maintenance depots like at Kelly Field
in Texas and at Wright-Patterson. Barings for all
sorts of purposes. components for the nuclear
submarines and for the repair and all kinds of
aircraft fasteners, wing fasteners and aircraft
fasteners and things, some common components to
landing gears and things like that. The peculiar
items in an aircraft were supplied by the Aviation
Supply Office, but the the common things on an
aircraft and there are many thousands of common
items that can come from any place. And I spent
about a year at that command and we were very
successful and very satisfying and a vacancy
opened up at the Defense Personnel Support Center
in South Philly. Kind of an emergency vacancy
because the then commander who was also an army
type, a major general army, had suffered a heart
attack, and they wanted him replaced with the
minimum of
lag in operation and authority and so forth. So
they said, look, we're going to move you down
across town to South Philadelphia to run DPSC. And
there was quarters on the facility down there, as
well as we had quarters on our facility at the
industrial supply center. So, hell, we moved over
a weekend. We moved in and took right off. And it was
there that I found myself during the Vietnam
buildup. Prior to that, I had made an extensive TDY
trip to Vietnam. and spent about 60 days over there
on some joint matters. And then when I was at DPSC, I
was sent over by the Secretary of Defense to make an
exhaustive logistical survey of supply
operations and logistic support of the forces in
Southeast Asia. And what did you find when you went
over there? When was that, 1966? No, this was in,
yeah, it was early 66. A lot of problems, a lot of
confusion, a lot of bad management. Bad
management attributed sorely to the lack of
command attention to the problems, such as
improper...